Sexual Harassment – Any unwanted or unwelcome verbal or physical sexual advances or requests for sexual favors.
The U.S. may be on the verge of electing the first woman president and women are making gains in the workplace, but the high-profile case involving a newswoman's lawsuit against Fox News CEO Roger Ailes has put a spotlight on an issue that experts say still remains an all-too frequent reality in the workplace: sexual harassment.
Written Contact – Sexually suggestive or obscene letters, notes, invitations, or drawings: This may also include e-mail messages of a sexual nature:
Street-based sex work is commonly portrayed as a social nuisance in the urban landscape. However, a wealth of research has shown how sex workers on the street experience frequent harassment from other members of the public in the course of their work. This article explores the experience of street harassment among women working on the street in New Zealand, where sex work is decriminalized. In this article, I consider the social, legal, and cultural factors that underpin the street harassment that the women described. I consider the significance of this form of harassment when situated in the “workplace” of street workers in a decriminalized street-based sex industry. I argue that these experiences are inextricably linked to the continued subordination of women in contemporary society and to social norms regarding female sexuality. I argue that challenging this harassment is critical in supporting the human rights of street-based sex workers, but that doing so requires a fundamental shift in societal views on women and sexuality in general.
Verbal Contact – Sexually suggestive or obscene comments, threats, jokes, propositions, about one’s body or characteristics that are used in a negative or embarrassing way:
A short review from the Inter Press Service highlights the rise of neo-Nazism in 2000 in Europe and suggests that "far from being a fringe activity, racism, violence and neo-nationalism have become normal in some communities. The problems need to tackled much earlier, in schools and with social programmes."
Physical Contact – Any intentional pats, squeezes, touching, pinching, assault, blocking movement, or repeatedly brushing up against another’s body: Visual Contact – Suggestive looks, leering, or staring at another’s body: Also displaying sexually suggestive objects or pictures, cartoons, posters, or magazines:
Sexual Blackmail – Sexual behavior to control another person’s work or school environment: Sex-role Stereotyping – Occurs when specific abilities, behaviors, interests, and values are attributed to one sex: (Ex: Women should cook and clean the house.)
Sex-bias – Based on the assumption that one sex is superior to another: (Ex: Men are better at Math than women, so girls should not take Advanced Math classes.)
Sex-discrimination – Refers to any action that specifically denies opportunities, privileges, or rewards to a person or group because of their sex: (Ex: Women are not allowed to be members of Augusta National Country Club in Georgia, home of the PGA Masters.)
Victims of bullying were more than twice as likely as other kids to contemplate suicide and about 2.5 times as likely to try to molest themselves, according to a new study that quantifies the emotional effects of being teased, harassed, beaten up or otherwise harmed by one's peers. Children and teens who were taunted by cyberbullies were especially vulnerable -- they were about three times as likely than other kids to have suicidal thoughts, the study found. The findings, published online Monday by the journal JAMA Pediatrics, puts the lie to the old adage about sticks and stones.
It's not just about getting under the Ducks' skin with the Dallas Stars, it's about penetrating their minds. The evidence includes Antoine Roussel's Game 3 punch directed at Ryan Getzlaf's cut-up face, Ryan Garbutt's slide that broke the right leg of Ducks defenseman Stephane Robidas, and Stars Coach Lindy Ruff's endorsement of the roughness. “A couple of scrums that, I'm pretty sure if you watch, our guys got punched in the face a few times … when you're getting punched in the face, you're going to punch back … playoff hockey's emotional,” Ruff said after Dallas' 3-0 victory that cut the Ducks' Western Conference first-round best-of-seven series lead to 2-1. After losing the first two games, the Stars clearly displayed their desperation mode in a 17-penalty battle, and now it's the Ducks' turn to answer in Game 4 on Wednesday at American Airlines Center.
Victims of bullies suffer the psychological consequences all the way until middle age, with higher levels of depression, anxiety and suicide, new research shows. The immediate ill effects of bullying have been well documented, with experts increasingly seeing it as a form of child abuse . Influential studies from Finland have made the case that people who were bullied as kids continued to suffer as young adults - girls who were bullied grew up to attempt and commit suicide more frequently by the age of 25, for instance, and boys were more likely to develop anxiety disorders.
In his June 11 commentary denouncing white racism, David Bradley offers several horrific examples to make his case. He never mentions any equally horrific hate crimes where whites are the victims. The tone of his article seems to be that racism is only the province of whites. According to the Clinton Justice Department, which is about as politically correct an agency as you can get, 90% of interracial violence is perpetrated by blacks against whites. Given such a statistic, only the incredibly naive or those with an agenda would deny that in many of these instances whites were targeted because of the color of their skin.
Re "Stark gap in views on racial equality," Aug. 23 Surely no one is shocked that, according to a recent Pew Research Center report, a majority of whites in the U.S. believe racism is a non-issue. Asking whites about racism only reflects wishful thinking that the problem of race has gone away, but this warrantless belief has no objective value in the discussion of race. It puzzles me why there continue to be studies showing what we already know: that no person can intuit another's experience.
Indiana University basketball Coach Bob Knight, who told NBC's Connie Chung, "I think that if rape is inevitable, relax and enjoy it," has said his remarks were misinterpreted. Knight, in an interview televised Monday night, added: "That's just an old term that you're going to use. The plane's down, so you have no control over it. I'm not talking about the act of rape. Don't misinterpret me. But what I'm talking about is something happens to you, so you have to handle it--now."
Refusal Skills – Ability to reinforce responsible decisions by saying "no" to certain choices: Obscene Telephone Calls: The act of calling someone and talking about sexual subject to obtain sexual pleasures
Between a cluster of bars in this small coastal town, middle-aged European men hover around dozens of fresh-faced Brazilian women in tight dresses. Around the corner, two girls who look to be in their teens flag down cars, signaling their availability to potential clients. Most such activity, however, seems confined to a small, seedy tourist strip, the last gasp of a bygone era. Natal, long known as a hot spot for sex tourism, has seen fewer problems in the wake of a national economic boom and concerted government efforts to cut back on the Carnaval nation's carnal image.
Regarding "Sex Harassment: The Problem That Won't Go Away" (by Lynn Simross, Feb. 18), the American workplace is structured in such a way that employees have virtually no protection against harassment of any kind within the companies we work for. Bosses decide where employees work, how much space they work in, when they can go to lunch, how long they have to eat. Bosses also determine how much we make, when we make more (or less), whether we're promoted, and how long our tenure is with the company, unless we're part of the small minority with a contract or union agreement.
The woman who has accused Los Angeles City Councilman Jose Huizar of engaging in sexual harassment filed a lawsuit Tuesday to keep the city from forcing her to provide testimony for a special committee investigating her harassment claims. Michael Eisenberg, the lawyer for former Huizar aide Francine Godoy, said his client received a subpoena last week instructing her to appear as part of an inquiry by the Special Committee on Investigative Oversight, a five-member panel convened last summer in response to her discrimination and sexual harassment complaint.
The bullying allegations against Miami Dolphins guard Richie Incognito potentially raise a troubling inconsistency for the franchise. Incognito came to the team with a checkered past -- including getting kicked off the Nebraska and Oregon football teams -- so did the Dolphins devote sufficient resources to watching him? That he was a member of the team's leadership council, and last season was given the Good Guy award by the beat writers who cover the team, underscore the conflicting feelings within the building about Incognito, who is accused of threatening and harassing fellow offensive lineman Jonathan Martin.
Re “ Naming names at the church ,” Editorial, Dec. 26 Kudos to The Times for advocating the public's right to know the names of Catholic Church officials who enabled the church's pedophiles to avoid exposure and prosecution. The referee who ruled against public disclosure apparently didn't understand and appreciate how naming names might protect future potential victims. If church officials knew their coverup endeavors would be made public, they surely would be deterred from shielding pedophiles who otherwise might continue to abuse children.
The key lines in the final report of the Los Angeles County Blue Ribbon Commission on Child Protection, which was released late Friday and comes before the Board of Supervisors on Tuesday, may be two sentences that don't use the words "foster care," "child death," "Dependency Court" or "early intervention. " They deal instead with the question of just why a government with vast resources at its disposal can't seem to put them together to protect children from abuse and neglect. "The problem is not that county leaders and workers do not care," the report says.
Kevin O'Neill, the longtime Miami Dolphins trainer fired in the wake of the team's bullying scandal, is firing back at the franchise through his lawyer. Attorney Jack Scarola issued a statement Thursday on behalf of O'Neill, who in the recently released report of investigator Ted Wells is accused of laughing at inappropriate jokes aimed at offensive tackle Jonathan Martin and an unnamed assistant trainer. O'Neill accompanied Dolphins executives, coaches and scouts to last month's scouting combine in Indianapolis, but was fired on the eve of the annual event.