 Of all the acts of executive clemency that President Clinton granted as he was leaving the White House, few strike as close to Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton as her husband's decision to reduce the prison terms of four New York Hasidic Jews convicted of bilking tens of millions of dollars from the government. Sen. Clinton, New York's Democratic junior senator, has said that in general she was a bystander while President Clinton made his decisions on clemency.
 Keeping politics out of the pulpit," Editorial, Nov. 5 Today I consider myself a freelance Catholic. I still go to Mass daily because I really enjoy the experience, but that's about it. I don't want anything to do with the organization. Two quotes from your editorial - one in which a Roman Catholic bishop says those who enable the destruction of life also reject Jesus, and another from a bishop who suggested that hellfire awaits those who vote the wrong way - are particularly egregious but typical of present-day Catholic hierarchical thinking.
 George Skelton, Capitol JournalSports is more than the toy department of our culture, it's often the source of excellent documentary work. Case in point: "More Than a Game," which is destined to be known as "the LeBron James movie" but in truth is a whole lot more. It shows how the powerful bond that James formed with his teammates in high school and earlier sustained him and transformed everyone's lives. Also pay attention to a continuing series of involving documentaries, "30 for 30," sponsored by ESPN Films for the cable network and using big name directors.
 Red double-decker tour buses have begun rolling again in New York and Circle Line boats have started plying the waterways as tourism took a few more baby steps toward normalization after the super storm Sandy, AP reports. The Empire State Building, Broadway theaters, the Museum of Modern Art and Metropolitan Museum, and many stores, have reopened. But the wire service says city parks (including Central Park), the High Line and the Statue of Liberty remain closed pending damage assessment . . . . Enjoy nibbles from top chefs and specialty food companies at the San Diego Bay Wine & Food Festival, Nov. 14-18.
 OK, quickly name America's top tourist destination. Orlando, Fla.? Las Vegas? The Grand Canyon? Try New York. By New Year's Eve, New York expected to have made history by snaring more than 50 million tourists in one year, considerably surpassing a deadline that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg set early in his administration for 2015 and then moved up to the end of 2012. When it became clear that the city would come in a year ahead of schedule, Bloomberg staged a media event just before Christmas in Times Square with balloons and billboards and a couple of smiling Brits.
 President Obama wants to make it easier for foreign tourists to come to the United States without making it easier for people to get in. Speaking to a crowd at Walt Disney World in Lake Buena Vista, Fla., Obama announced new initiatives to increase travel and tourism in the United States, including one that will make it easier for tourists from Brazil and China to get visas to visit. As first reported this morning by the Orlando Sentinel , the new executive order signed by Obama calls for a 40% increase in processing capacity in both countries over the next year.
 Acnemedications and treatments fill drug store shelves, but some acne sufferers may have a tough time discerning which are the best to use. A paper published online in the journal the Lancet finds that certain studies on acne remedies are few and far between. In a seminar in the journal researchers from the U.S. and the U.K. reviewed the current slate of treatments available, including topical treatments such as benzoyl peroxide, retinoids and topical antibiotics, and oral treatments such as antibiotics, contraceptives and isotretinoin (the last typically used to treat severe cases of acne)
 Studies in macaques have for the first time shown that an intravaginal ring laced with an anti-HIV drug can block transmission of HIV during sexual intercourse. Researchers at the Population Council who demonstrated the product are now refining drug concentrations and contents of the ring and hope to begin human trials within 18 to 24 months. Previous studies with vaginal microbicides to block HIV have produced mixed results, with at least one showing some protection and another showing none.
 Getting a colonoscopy is not something most people look forward to -- but a new analysis suggests that it's worth it to follow screening recommendations and have the test done every 10 years (or every five for those at high risk.) Writing in the New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday, Harvard researcher Reiko Nishihara and co-authors assessed colonoscopy use, colorectal cancer cases and colorectal cancer deaths among participants in the multidecade Nurses' Health Study and Health Professionals Follow-up Study.
The gig: Olympic medalist Anita L. DeFrantz, 61, is president and a director of the LA84 Foundation, the charitable organization that runs off an endowment of surplus funds from the Los Angeles Olympic Games. In the three decades since those games, LA84 has donated more than $214 million to more than 1,100 Southern California youth sports programs, providing opportunities for more than 3 million children. DeFrantz has spent nearly half her life with the organization, formerly known as the Amateur Athletic Foundation.
The Legislature is about to decide whether to allow a colleague to become the first Republican Latino to hold statewide office in 135 years. But more important questions also will be answered: Can the Legislature's Democratic majority vote for a Republican? Can Democratic Latinos vote for a potentially rival Republican Latino? Can Republican conservatives vote for one of the Legislature's very rare Republican moderates? In short, can this Legislature behave in a bipartisan manner?
Re "U.S. can't link Libya attack to Al Qaeda," Oct. 20 I'm more than disappointed that we have another intelligence failure to deal with. Our national interests have been ill served by an armed attack that no one saw coming. The loss of a good man, Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, will hurt our efforts in Libya. Worst of all, we have the Republicans playing "gotcha" politics, jumping the shark on every rumor to call President Obama a liar. They've even convinced Mitt Romney, who I believe to be a somewhat honest man, to join in. Will the Republicans pay the price for being so badly wrong?
SACRAMENTO - Gov. Jerry Brown on Wednesday appointed as head of California's political ethics agency a judge who has overseen the discipline of attorneys. Jodi Remke, presiding judge of the State Bar Court of California, is Brown's choice for chairwoman of the state Fair Political Practices Commission. Her appointment fills a void created six months ago when Chairwoman Ann Ravel moved to the Federal Elections Commission. Good-government activists including Robert Stern, a former general counsel for the California agency and a coauthor of the state Political Reform Act, said they knew nothing about Remke.
The National Rifle Assn. is preparing to kick off its annual convention Friday in Indianapolis, where it will mix politics with advocacy for 2nd Amendment issues, including one of its longtime goals: a national reciprocity law that would allow gun owners to carry licensed weapons across state lines. Efforts to pass such a law have failed in the past. That it is on the agenda less than two years after the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., is evidence of the NRA's resilience as well as its ability to bounce back from a low point.
Nine months after taking office, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani finds himself under pressure from both his reformist supporters and hard-line conservatives as efforts to spur political change and economic progress have stumbled. Rouhani has faced a backlash in recent weeks from the very base that helped get him elected, which now sees a lack of movement to bolster personal liberties or free political prisoners. Meanwhile, both reformists and hard-liners are increasingly frustrated over economic woes.
films adapted from comic books have had plenty of success    , whether they're about superheroes ( batman    , superman    , spawn )    , or geared toward kids ( casper ) or the arthouse crowd ( ghost world )    , but there's never really been a comic book like from hell before    .
for starters    , it was created by alan moore ( and eddie campbell )    , who brought the medium to a whole new level in the mid '80s with a 12-part series called the watchmen    .
to say moore and campbell thoroughly researched the subject of jack the ripper would be like saying michael jackson is starting to look a little odd    .
the book ( or   " graphic novel    ,   " if you will ) is over 500 pages long and includes nearly 30 more that consist of nothing but footnotes    .
in other words    , don't dismiss this film because of its source    .
if you can get past the whole comic book thing    , you might find another stumbling block in from hell's directors    , albert and allen hughes    .
getting the hughes brothers to direct this seems almost as ludicrous as casting carrot top in    , well    , anything    , but riddle me this    : who better to direct a film that's set in the ghetto and features really violent street crime than the mad geniuses behind menace ii society    ?
the ghetto in question is    , of course    , whitechapel in 1888 london's east end    .
it's a filthy    , sooty place where the whores ( called   " unfortunates   " ) are starting to get a little nervous about this mysterious psychopath who has been carving through their profession with surgical precision    .
when the first stiff turns up    , copper peter godley ( robbie coltrane    , the world is not enough ) calls in inspector frederick abberline ( johnny depp    , blow ) to crack the case    .
abberline    , a widower    , has prophetic dreams he unsuccessfully tries to quell with copious amounts of absinthe and opium    .
upon arriving in whitechapel    , he befriends an unfortunate named mary kelly ( heather graham    , say it isn't so ) and proceeds to investigate the horribly gruesome crimes that even the police surgeon can't stomach    .
i don't think anyone needs to be briefed on jack the ripper    , so i won't go into the particulars here    , other than to say moore and campbell have a unique and interesting theory about both the identity of the person and the reasons he chooses to slay    .
in the comic    , they don't bother cloaking the identity of the ripper    , but screenwriters terry hayes ( vertical limit ) and rafael yglesias ( les mis    ? rables ) do a good job of keeping him hidden from viewers until the very end    .
it's funny to watch the locals blindly point the finger of blame at jews and indians because    , after all    , an englishman could never be capable of committing such ghastly acts    .
and from hell's ending had me whistling the stonecutters song from the simpsons for days (   " who holds back the electric car/who made steve guttenberg a star    ?   " )    .
don't worry - it'll all make sense when you see it    .
now onto from hell's appearance    : it's certainly dark and bleak enough    , and it's surprising to see how much more it looks like a tim burton film than planet of the apes did ( at times    , it seems like sleepy hollow 2 )    .
the print i saw wasn't completely finished ( both color and music had not been finalized    , so no comments about marilyn manson )    , but cinematographer peter deming ( don't say a word ) ably captures the dreariness of victorian-era london and helped make the flashy touching scenes remind me of the crazy flashbacks in twin peaks    , even though the violence in the film pales in comparison to that in the black-and-white comic    .
oscar winner martin childs' ( shakespeare in love ) production design turns the original prague surroundings into one creepy place    .
even the acting in from hell is solid    , with the dreamy depp turning in a typically strong performance and deftly handling a british accent    .
ians holm ( joe gould's secret ) and richardson ( 102 dalmatians ) log in great supporting roles    , but the big surprise here is graham    .
i cringed the first time she opened her mouth    , imagining her attempt at an irish accent    , but it actually wasn't half bad    .
the film    , however    , is all good    .
#Trump is the man world ever. On #Iran #News there is a lot of new informations, but in #showtime #news there is completely nothing.
2    : 00 - r for strong violence/gore    , sexuality    , language and medicine content
