They arose early and got themselves all decked out: she in a midcalf dress of some soft beige, he in a jacket and tie--the first tie Scott Roston's roommate had ever seen him wear. Scott Roston and Karen Waltz raced to Las Vegas on Feb. 4 in his leased red Toyota two-seater and were wed in a $25 civil ceremony in a marriage commissioner's office enlivened by some blue and white artificial flowers. Then they raced back to Santa Monica.
Egypt brushes aside criticism of latest anti-terror measures
Egypt on Saturday sharply rejected a prominent human rights group's criticism of two tough new draft anti-terror laws. The measures, which have yet to be signed into law by interim President Adly Mansour, so sweepingly define terrorism that almost any sort of political activism, however peaceful, could result in prosecution, Amnesty International said in a statement issued Friday. Foreign Ministry spokesman Badr Abdelatty dismissed the London-based group's criticism, characterizing it as meddling in Egypt's affairs.
Saudis faulted for funding terror
Saudi Arabia remains the world's leading source of money for Al Qaeda and other extremist networks and has failed to take key steps requested by U.S. officials to stem the flow, the Bush administration's top financial counter-terrorism official said Tuesday. Stuart A.
Lawsuit targets NSA wiretap
When federal prosecutors charged Colorado resident Jamshid Muhtorov in 2012 with providing support to a terrorist organization in his native Uzbekistan, court records suggested the FBI had secretly tapped his phones and read his emails. But it wasn't just the FBI. The Justice Department acknowledged in October that the National Security Agency had gathered evidence against Muhtorov under a 2008 law that authorizes foreign intelligence surveillance without warrants, much of it on the Internet.
Edward N. Luttwak's "Chasing Terrorism by Subcontractor" (Commentary, Dec. 23) directly attacks all Muslims in all countries, including the U.S., which he states is "the leading Christian nation," a statement that in itself undoubtedly bothers not only American Muslims but also American Jews and American members of other religions and philosophies. He maintains that "Islamic terrorists" are free to travel in Canada and in this country because each nation has "Islamic immigrant communities," a terrible and unfounded indictment of all immigrant Muslims.
Redefining 'support' of terrorism
When most Americans hear that it's illegal to supply "material support" to foreign terrorist groups, they probably assume that the prohibition involves financial or technical support -- sending money to pay for hijackers' air fares or providing wiring for a bomb (or advice about how to use it). In fact, the law also seems to prohibit residents of this country from trying to talk political movements out of terrorism or counseling them on how to bring their grievances before international bodies.
Letters: Taking a stand on terrorism
Re “ Gunman's brother denounces family ,” Nov. 10 Abdelghani Merah's book, “My Brother, This Terrorist,” should be considered for a prize for the wisdom and courage exemplified by his denouncement of the hateful indoctrination to which he was subjected by his family of religious extremists. What is odd, though - and what makes Merah's expression of outrage so noteworthy - is that so few other Islamists speak out against the intolerant adherents of their religion who preach hatred and incite the killing of innocent people in God's name.
 terrorism case widens
Two Chicago men accused of planning an attack on a Danish newspaper knew beforehand about the terrorist attacks in Mumbai, India, last year that killed nearly 170 people, federal investigators said Monday. In a conversation that investigators said they secretly recorded on a long car ride, U.S. authorities said the two men chatted about how they had known the terrorism rampage was about to begin in which 10 gunmen ran between hotels and other public places shooting people. During the ride, U.S. officials said, Tahawwur Rana asked David Coleman Headley to pass along congratulations to the planner of the attack, a leader of the militant Pakistani organization Lashkar-e-Taiba.
terrorism suspects have rights
Last week, following the attempted bombing in Times Square, Sen. Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.) proposed that those aiding foreign terrorist activity should be stripped of their citizenship. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-San Francisco) and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton quickly agreed, with a few reservations, that the idea had merits. On Sunday, Atty. Gen. Eric H. Holder Jr. said on morning news shows that Congress should consider legislation that would allow questioning of terrorism suspects without warning them of their right to remain silent, as required by the Supreme Court in Miranda vs. Arizona.
Terrorism and the war at home
Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) waged a 13-hour filibuster on the Senate floor this week in a futile effort to set clear limits on the administration's use of covert military force. Specifically, Paul wanted the administration to concede that it couldn't legally assassinate Americans on U.S. soil. The idea that a president would approve a drone strike on a citizen sitting at a cafe in Boston or San Francisco or Wichita seems far-fetched, but even the least paranoid among us can't help but be troubled by the administration's less-than-definitive assurances.
recalls terror as gunfire broke out
member of the Olympic Park Neighborhood Council, was at the group's monthly meeting at the Los Angeles Police Department's West Bureau community room on Monday night when the gunfire broke out.  "I heard shots," she said in an interview. "They were unmistakable. " The gunfire broke out about 8:30 p.m. after a gunman walked into the Mid-City building and opened fire. An officer was shot at seven times and was wounded, police said. The wounded officer, along with another officer, returned fire and struck the gunman, police said.
Texas terror suspect planned mosque attack, officials say
Talbot Jr. considered himself a revolutionary seeking to create a different society by robbing an armored car, killing police and even blazing a bloody path though a service at a mosque where he would shoot men, women and children at prayer, officials said. Talbot was ordered held without bond Wednesday at a hearing in Houston, Angela Dodge, a spokeswoman for Kenneth Magidson, the U.S. attorney for the southern district of Texas, said in an email. Talbot, 38, of Katy, Texas, was arrested last week , but government terror experts gave new details at Tuesday's hearing on what they said were his plans.
Bin Laden son-in-law denies speaking for Al Qaeda in a call for jihad
A cleric who gave a rousing speech urging jihad against "Jews, Christians and America" after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks testified at his terrorism trial Wednesday that he was speaking for Muslims, not for Al Qaeda, even though he delivered his message while sitting beside Osama bin Laden outside his mountain hide-out in Afghanistan. Sulaiman abu Ghaith held the witness stand for about four hours after defense attorney Stanley Cohen surprised the courtroom by calling the defendant to testify on his own behalf - something Cohen said he had done only twice in his 30-year career.
Search of Malaysia pilot's home finds no sign of terrorism, suicide
A review of the emails and a search of a home flight simulator have found nothing so far to suggest the pilots on the missing plane purposely compromised the flight by diverting it away from Beijing, according to two U.S. law enforcement officials. “Nothing stuck out,” said one of the sources, who was briefed on the search conducted by Malaysian officials. He said authorities sought to find out whether the pilot, Zaharie Ahmad Shah, might have been training on the simulator, specifically how to turn off the transponders and other in-flight devices before the March 8 flight.
California student held on terrorism charge linked to L.A. subway
A 20-year-old student at a California community college, who authorities said had discussed an attack on the Los Angeles subway, has been arrested on a federal terrorism charge while trying to enter Canada for an eventual trip to the Mideast, where he planned to help a group wage holy war, officials said Monday. Nicholas Teausant, 20, of Acampo, Calif., was arrested at the border crossing in Blaine, Wash. He was planning to eventually join a terrorist group, the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, according to Benjamin B. Wagner, the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of California, which includes Sacramento.
Missing jet's travelers with stolen passports show no terror links
By Barbara Demick, This post has been updated. See the note below for details.
The passengers traveling on stolen passports on the vanished Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 were Iranians who authorities believe were trying to migrate to Europe. Malaysian Police Inspector General Khalid Abu Bakar on Tuesday told reporters that one of the men was Pouria Nour Mohammed Mehrdad, a 19-year-old whose mother was waiting for him in Frankfurt, Germany. She contacted authorities after the flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing was reported missing. “We believe he does not have any links to terrorism, and we believe he was just trying to migrate to Germany," Abu Bakar said at a news conference in Kuala Lumpur on Tuesday.
