"People are trapped in history and history is trapped in them," wrote James Baldwin in "Notes of a Native Son. " Much of novelist Emma Donoghue's literary career has involved the liberation of historical figures, often women, from the constraints of the recorded past to the relative freedom of fiction, as in her novels "Slammerkin," "The Sealed Letter" and "Life Mask," all set in the 18th or 19th century. Her most recent work, the multiple-award-winning international bestseller "Room," took a more contemporary approach, loosely inspired by the experiences of women recently held captive by abusive men. In her new novel, "Frog Music," Donoghue returns to the more distant past to take on an unsolved San Francisco murder: that of young Jenny Bonnet, shot by an unknown killer lurking outside her railway hotel room.
As his girlfriend, Reeva Steenkamp , cowered behind a locked door in a tiny bathroom, Oscar Pistorius strapped on his prosthetic legs, grabbed his pistol, strode seven yards to the door and fired through it four times, killing her, prosecutors alleged Tuesday as they laid out their case against the double-amputee Olympic runner in Pretoria Magistrate's Court. According to prosecutor Gerrie Nel, Pistorius' actions amounted to premeditated murder.
Denver police are investigating whether a man suspected of fatally shooting his wife Monday night had been acting strangely because he may have consumed edible marijuana, a law enforcement official said Tuesday. Richard Kirk's wife called 911 to report that her husband was "talking about the end of the world" and hallucinating, behavior that was scaring their three children, according to a Denver Police Department arrest warrant. The woman, whose name was redacted from the warrant, told the dispatcher that Kirk wanted her to shoot him. Eventually, he retrieved a gun from a safe, screamed and then a gunshot is heard on the 911 tape, according to the court document . Officers found the woman lying on the floor of the couple's home, dead from an apparent gunshot to the head.
Murder and rape charges were filed Monday against two registered sex offenders accused of killing four women who vanished from the streets of Orange County. Franc Cano, 27, and Steven Dean Gordon, 45, were formally charged Monday with murder in the commission of rape and lying in wait, accusations that would make them subject to the death penalty. Both have prior convictions, and have done time in prison for sex crimes against a child under the age of 14. The two transients were arrested Friday in an industrial area of Anaheim, not far from the trash-sorting facility where the body of 21-year-old Jarrae Nykkole Estepp was found last month on a conveyor belt.
Re "The wrong cigarette tax," Editorial, June 8 No amount of rationalization will change the fact that The Times has helped companies that sell a deadly product. Cigarette taxes save lives. It has been shown repeatedly that raising cigarette taxes gets people to quit smoking and fewer youth start. We can argue about how funds might be best used, but there is no "wrong" cigarette tax. You could shoot the entire tax into a black hole in space and still it would save lives.
Orange County prosecutors have ended their quest to use recorded conversations between the suspect in the Seal Beach mass killing and a jailhouse informant, which they had hoped could put the man on death row. Senior Deputy Dist. Atty. Howard Gundy told the court Tuesday he would concede a defense motion arguing that tapes of Scott Dekraai and informant Fernando Perez were obtained in violation of Dekraai's 6th Amendment rights. The recordings spurred a wide-ranging defense investigation into the use of jailhouse informants in Orange County.
In a quiet residential neighborhood in Long Beach 13 years ago, Dick Keech fired four shots at his son-in-law, who lay face-down on a neighbor's lawn, bleeding from an earlier gunshot wound. "It's all over," he said later to a neighbor who ran out at the sound. "He won't bother anyone anymore." On Monday, a Long Beach judge said he would grant Keech, 89, the compassion he did not show his 47-year-old son-in-law, Nick Candy, at the time of the killing in 1996. Judge William T. Garner ordered Keech, who was serving a life term for murder, released on grounds that he is medically incapacitated.
Bill Carns and his girlfriend were the last people to be attacked by  Richard Ramirez, the "Night Stalker" serial killer who murdered 13 people in 1984 and '85 and was convicted of dozens of other felonies, including rape. On Friday, the day that Ramirez died of natural causes, Carns welcomed the death of his attacker. “It's about time,” Carns told The Times by telephone from his home in Bismarck, N.D. “Finally, justice has been served…. I'm glad it's over.” Carns was a 29-year-old electrical engineer living with his girlfriend in Mission Viejo in Orange County on the night of the attack.
accomplice	helps another person to commit a crime	aiding and abetting	aid and abet
A 12-year-old girl should spend up to 20 years in state custody for beating a toddler to death in her grandparents' illegal day-care center, a jury decided Friday. She was 11 when she beat 2 1/2-year-old Jayla Belton to death on May 24, striking her on the head and body more than a dozen times and rupturing her liver with the fatal blow. The girl was convicted Wednesday of criminally negligent homicide and intentional injury to a child. The six-man, six-woman jury found her innocent of the more serious charges of murder and manslaughter.
A 14-year-old boy wanted on suspicion of torturing and attempting to kill an 87-year-old woman as she slept in a retirement home in Hemet has been arrested, police said. Raymond Michael Miranda was tracked to Temecula on Thursday evening and brought back to Hemet, where he was booked into the city jail, Hemet police said in a statement. Officials said took the unusual step of releasing the boy's photo and identity Thursday "due to the serious nature of the case" and the need for the public's help in tracking the homeless teen down.
A knife-wielding man was shot and killed Friday night during a confrontation with deputies outside a home in Maywood, according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. Sheriff's deputies from the East Los Angeles Station responded around 11:06 p.m. to a report of a man attempting to commit suicide at a home in the 3800 block of 56th Street, according to a department statement. The caller told authorities the man was holding a knife to his stomach, the statement said. When deputies arrived they saw the man holding in his right hand a long metal object that resembled a knife, authorities said.
The family of a Transportation Security Administration officer slain in a shooting at LAX has filed a claim against the city, alleging the wrongful death of Gerardo Hernandez and seeking damages in excess of $25 million. The claim, filed April 16, can be a precursor to a civil lawsuit. The family alleges in the claim that city agencies failed to protect Los Angeles International Airport. The claim says city employees "failed in the performance of their duties which created a dangerous lapse in security" that led to Hernandez's death and delayed medical care to the injured.
Four people were shot and killed in a St. Louis business building Thursday, a police homicide officer told the Los Angeles Times. The shootings were inside a building known as the Cherokee Place Business Incubator, a project that houses several independent companies. Police are still investigating the incident that began at about 1:40 p.m., said the officer, who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak for the department. Details of the incident were sketchy, but police said there was no active search for a gunman.
assassin	kills people for political reasons, or in return for payment	assassination	assassinate
Police publicly declared a "riot" due to "extensive criminal and dangerous behavior" and called the protest "unlawful," according to posts on the department's Twitter page.
The crowd was dispersed using "less lethal munitions" and at least 26 protesters were arrested, police said.
Protests and marches continued in other US cities including Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Denver, Minneapolis, Baltimore, Dallas and Oakland, California.
A protester kicks a bank&#39;s window during Thurdsay night&#39;s protest in Portland.
A protester kicks a bank's window during Thurdsay night's protest in Portland.
The mood in the streets where protesters marched was as varied as the locations.
Some of the roughly 1,000 protesters in Oakland broke store windows, left graffiti on buildings and threw M-80 firecrackers, Molotov cocktails and bottles at police officers, authorities said.
Eleven people were arrested in Oakland, including someone who had seven Molotov cocktails in his possession, police said. Some of those arrested are accused of assaulting police officers.
In Los Angeles, about 185 protesters were arrested Thursday night into Friday morning, police Officer Norma Eisenman said -- including some on suspicion of blocking roads, and minors accused of violating curfew.
People gathered outside Los Angeles' City Hall chanting "not my president." As in Oakland, there were reports of people throwing rocks and bottles at police officers and vandalizing police cars with graffiti, CNN affiliate ABC reported. At least one person was held on suspicion of assaulting an officer, Eisenman said.
Numerous cars at a Toyota dealership were smashed as people protested in Portland on November 10.
Photos: Anti-Trump protests after election
Numerous cars at a Toyota dealership were smashed as people protested in Portland on November 10.
Outside the White House on Thursday night, protesters gathered with signs, some of which said "Donald Trump is a racist."
Many demonstrations were peaceful, if not tense and somber.
In Philadelphia, protester Deb Bentzel said that "as a woman and someone who believes all people, regardless of their race, religion or citizenship status should be supported and embraced by this country," she marched to reject "the racism, hate, misogyny and fear that this man (Trump) projects and fosters in others."
In Minneapolis, protester Lauren Peck shared similar sentiments as she gathered with others at the Humphrey School of Public Affairs, named for the late US senator and Vice President Hubert Humphrey, at the University of Minnesota.
Cars at a Toyota dealership in Portland were smashed during Thursday night&#39;s protests.
Cars at a Toyota dealership in Portland were smashed during Thursday night's protests.
"I feel it's important to voice that I have serious concerns about this President-elect and the racism, sexism, xenophobia and so much more that does not represent me or so many in my life. The mood here is peaceful, positive and energetic," Peck said.
Photos: When the people protest the president
Trump tweeted that the demonstrations that began hours after polls closed Tuesday night were "very unfair."
Trump's presidency 'needs to be opposed'
Documentary filmmaker Michael Moore also joined the pack of protesters outside Trump Tower in New York this week.
Portland police said they used pepper spray to disperse protesters after the demonstrators threw things at the officers.
Portland police said they used pepper spray to disperse protesters after the demonstrators threw things at the officers.
"I was very proud of the fact that so many people came out because his presidency needs to be opposed right now," Moore told Don Lemon on "CNN Tonight" Thursday.
"Literally thousands of people coming down the street and I just joined them," Moore said. "There's a lot of fear and a lot of panic amongst a lot of people right now."
